Adding docs + examples for cpp dev tools for copilot chat (#9365)
Microsoft/vscode-docs: docs/cpp/cpp-devtools.md

---
Order: 9
Area: cpp
TOCTitle: C++ Dev Tools for Copilot
PageTitle: Leveraging C++ Development Tools with GitHub Copilot Chat

# Leveraging C++ Development Tools with GitHub Copilot Chat

Refactoring and making updates in C++ code often requires tracking down edits across multiple files and knowledge of your build configuration.

> GitHub Copilot Chat can leverage powerful C++ tools built into VS Code to provide context-aware assistance for your C++ projects. By using code understanding and CMake tools, Copilot can understand your codebase structure, dependencies, and build configurations to give you more accurate, helpful, and fast responses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GitHub Copilot Chat can use the C++ tools built into VS Code to provide context-aware assistance for your C++ projects. By using code understanding and CMake tools, Copilot can understand your codebase structure, dependencies, and build configurations to give you more accurate, helpful, and fast responses.
```

---

## CMake Tools Integration

CMake tools allow Copilot Chat to understand your build configuration, targets, and dependencies, enabling build-aware assistance.

### CMake Build (`Build_CMakeTools`)

**What it does:** Builds your CMake project using the current configuration and selected target.

**Example Use Case:**
*Resolving build errors*

![User asking Copilot to resolve build errors, which invokes the CMake build tool](/docs/cpp/images/cmake-build-example.png)

---

### Run CTest (`RunCTest_CMakeTools`)

**What it does:** Runs test suite defined by CTest in your project

**Example Use Case:**
*Fix code according to unit tests*
![User asking to fix failing unit tests, which invokes run ctest](/docs/cpp/images/run-ctest-example.png.png)

---

### Tips for Effective Prompts

- **Be specific:** Identify the exact symbol, file, or component you're asking about (e.g., "refactor the `getConfig()` function" rather than "make this faster")
- **Reference context:** Ask Copilot Chat to consider specific files, functions, or modules when analyzing changes

> - **Use custom instructions:** Set up [custom instructions](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-docs/blob/main/docs/copilot/customization/custom-instructions.md) to guide Copilot Chat

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Use custom instructions:** Set up [custom instructions](/docs/copilot/customization/custom-instructions.md) to guide Copilot Chat. Type `/init` to generate instructions for your project.
```
